1. Most likely 2: the public market and the black market. The possibility of multiple markets doesn't mean it will happen. There should be no hard-coded markets, but the markets should also be generalized and not special markets for only a few commodities.
2. We should do a deep dive into this once all the other points have been discussed. Remind me at a later point to get back into this.
3. The idea is that bartering is a process which will be replaced by commodity money before it becomes a processing power problem. This also needs a deep dive however, finding a good algorithm to solve bartering problems. We can perhaps also assign value to each good based on 1-1 bartering trades and solve for n-length bartering by simply checking the value ratio between the goods, if that makes any sense.
4. I don't want to create any concrete values yet. I don't think Prestige interacts with Culture's Feat system as one is more temporary and the other more permanent.
5. Perhaps. I don't want to get into specifics like that during this brainstorming.
6. The smugglingCapacity piggy-backs on the normal TradeRoute tonnage. I'm not overly familiar with all market related terms, so what do you mean with Arbitrage Contracts? The idea of hidden markets (such as the black market) is that the nation does benefit, but not the government.
7. We don't directly need an entirely separate Waste Management mechanic. Waste Management can be either buildings earning a profit on recycling or subsidized buildings buying the waste. The can be a waste management law which forces producers of waste products give waste products away for free. We should also have laws which forces producers to not produce waste products, but governments should be careful about not limiting their industry as well. Some forms of pollution (like CO2) isn't a tangible resource, but instead has a polluting effect on the environment. Some recipes also pollutes the surrounding tiles (smog).
8. Good question. No idea. Do you have any idea? What are the precedences for this? The bank run event could be part of an event chain which might lead to a recession :)
9. I haven't quite wrapped my head around how to simulate inflation yet. Would the inflation simply appear as a result of the simulation? I do think we should have laws influencing wage growth. Interesting question regarding contracts repricing. I think we could have a law dictating repricing of contracts, precisely the interval between repricing. Repricing can be part of a building contract. So this opens up questions of how to initialize building projects: Do we allow the player to define how often the contracts can be repriced? Does this affect who is willing to do the building?
10. No one nation owns a trade route, but the two nations being traded between can control if trade is allowed. Toll of trade routes can either be seen as hostile (a non-party nation parks an army over the trade route demanding toll), or as part of the trade route. Both parties of the trade route can be insulted by a toll being placed on the route, or they can have a treaty defining the toll on the route I suppose? Toll revenues are never split if an army is performing the tolling. What do you mean by "faction"?
11. Sure and sure.
12. I'm not brainstorming specific buildings yet, just the concepts and ideas. What do you mean new tags mid-game?
13. I like the idea of not being able to do advanced economics before you have certain techs allowing you to. Players can, once they have the tech for it, target individual corporations with their embargoes. They can also nationalize the buildings owned by corporations if they want. This can cause quite a stir though.
14. Yep we should also track deflation the same way we do inflation. Events shouldn't spawn new resources nor magically inject more resources into the market. It should simply add a migration bonus and have corporations spawn which build gold mines in the area. Once the gold is exhausted the corporations shut down.
15. The Market module owns the master CPI figure. Other pillars may query prices whenever they need to.